feat(accordion): initial design guidance (#2)
vmware-clarity/clarity-guidance: 1000-accordion-design-guidance.md

---
category: component design guidance
state: draft
created: 2024-10-15
updated: 2024-10-22
---

> # Accordion Component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Accordion Design Guidance
```

> An [accordion](https://clarity.design/documentation/accordion) is a collection of vertically stacked sections with multiple content panels.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An [accordion](https://clarity.design/documentation/accordion) is a user interface component that consists of vertically stacked sections, each containing multiple content panels. It allows users to expand and collapse these sections, enabling them to manage large amounts of information efficiently while maintaining a clear overview of the available content.
```

## Guidance

> - **Must** use accordions when you need to display a lot of different information and the user doesn’t need it all at once.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** use accordions to display large amounts of information without overwhelming users, allowing them to expand and collapse sections as needed.
```

> - **Must not** use an accordion if all the content is important to a user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must not** use an accordion when all content is important to the user, as it may cause confusion or hinder access to essential information.
```

> - **Must not** use an accordion if there is very little visible content on the page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must not** use an accordion when there is very little visible content on the page, as it can lead to unnecessary complexity and reduce usability.
```

> - **Must not** add too long information in the accordion content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must not** include overly lengthy information in the accordion content, as this can overwhelm users and diminish the effectiveness of the accordion's collapsible design.
```

> - The accordion header **must** be coincise and convey the nature of the content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** ensure that the accordion header is concise and clearly conveys the nature of the content within, allowing users to quickly understand what information is contained in each section.
```

> - **Should** use accordions to present secondary information or to provide an overview of a page's content.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **should** use accordions to present secondary information or to give an overview of a page's content, helping users easily navigate and access relevant details without overwhelming them.
```

### Accessibility 

> - The accordion header **must not** contain clickable elements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must not** include clickable elements in the accordion header, as this can lead to confusion about the intended functionality and disrupt the user's interaction with the accordion.
```

- The accordion header **should** include only a title and brief info (if needed).

> - Accordions **may** be nested up to 2 levels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Accordions **must not** be nested more than 2 levels.
```

Alternative. Thoughts: @jbusta5

> - Accordions **must not** be nested more than 2 levels.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must not** nest accordions more than two levels deep to prevent overwhelming users with excessive content hierarchy, which can lead to confusion and difficulty navigating the information.
```
